I am an embedded software developer by passion, but a user-space dev by trade. For a long time now I have wanted to bridge the gap between these two worlds.

Those were the first two sentences of the query I wrote to ask an LLM what a project like this would entail, back when `mockernel` first came to mind. After several months of reading on the topic, filling in technical voids, and generally catching up - while still not fully confident in my abilities - I have decided to bite the bullet and get on with the implementation. After all, one does not *just* let such an awesome idea for a project name go to waste...

Although Fortran does hold a special place in my heart, I remain mildly suspicious of anything that uses one-based indexing. I kid, of course, but I usually do start my projects by their 0th step, as it seems like the perfect number for an initial "setup & config" step. This is precisely what M0 will cover, the complete set up of an environment that is fully capable of hosting the development of the project.

I, as many people, was born a windows user, and, as many windows users, have always tended to stay the furthest away from windows that I could. It did not take a lot of time, once I discovered containers, for me to implement them into my workflow as a way to set up an environment free of my host OS' grip. When I discovered VS code's Dev Containers, I quickly jumped onboard. I did carry a lot of vices, though, usually just spooling up a Debian container and manually setting up the toolchain. For this, my first portfolio piece, the development environment is the first thing I want to take a more normative approach with.